Good morning.
Thanks for waking up with us
this morning and coming to
check out this great session.
This is session number 711,
Enhanced Learning with QuickTime.
And I'm very happy to
introduce our speaker.
He was one of the most highly
critically acclaimed speakers last year.
So it was a no-brainer
to invite him back.
So I'd like to introduce
to you David Egbert.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, here we go.
Now this is an oldie but a goodie,
probably about four years
old that we created.
It's been remodified here
using some modern tools.
This is a picture of Mona Lisa, right?
And did you know that the
painter of the Mona Lisa,
Leonardo da Vinci,
let's get it going here, there we go.
Look at that resemblance.
Isn't that kind of spooky?
A professor requested this,
and originally we did this
in another authoring tool,
but this is a great example of
being able to compare and contrast,
right?
You've got two images and
you want to compare them.
Wow, this is great.
So we brought the
Mona Lisa into Photoshop,
put Leonardo da Vinci right on top,
saved about as two images,
brought it into iPhoto,
and saved it out as a QuickTime movie.
That allowed us to put
that transition in there.
So it was really easy
to be able to do this.
Now, the professor loves this
because in the past,
the professor had transparencies, right?
He's flipping the
transparencies in and out,
trying to get it to line up or whatever.
It just didn't work right.
But now, with the projector in the
classroom and the computer,
they can pull this up and
use it in the classroom.
The professor also has
this in his online course,
so the students can go back and
kind of fool around with it as well.
So, just a quick and easy way
to be able to compare and
contrast two different images.
Here's something a
little bit more advanced.
This was done for a cinematography
class where they wanted to show the
students the difference between an
unrestored and a restored video clip.
There we go.
So there's the unrestored version.
If we click this button,
we get the restored version.
If you click back here,
we get the old version, right?
This is something
QuickTime does extremely well,
and that is the ability
to swap tracks out,
video tracks, audio tracks.
It's really easy to do this inside
of some of the authoring tools
that are available for QuickTime.
This is really hard to
do in other technologies,
especially the fact that
when you click that button,
it's syncing.
It's frame-level accuracy syncing.
It's swapping out those
tracks right at the frame.
It's great.
So let's look at another example.
Here's another one.
A professor brought in a series
of images that they had taken.
"We've been shooting some flames.
Now each one of those quadrants,
they've added a little bit
different property to the flame.
And they wanted to be able to analyze
all the flames at the same time.
So what we did here is that
these are all image sequences,
right?
So we brought in each,
created a separate movie
for each one of those,
and then we combined
all the movies together,
right?
And now they're playing
together with frame-accurate
synchronicity all together.
Now we added a little twist to this.
They also wanted to be able to take
this little square here and move
it around and analyze just that
specific portion of that little flame,
right?
So after we actually
created most of that,
we created the frames
with QuickTime Player Pro.
We added a little time code track
so they could stop the clip.
At any point and just
analyze that still frame.
And then we brought in the live stage
to be able to add the interactivity.
That we could move around that
little square so they could analyze
a specific portion of that flame.
Not terribly tough as far as
the authoring is concerned.
Let's move on.
Here's a digitized film strip.
We've got all kinds of film strips,
you know, with the audio cassettes
in our libraries.
This one, let's bring it up.
There we go.
This one's in Russian.
And the students were required
to check out the film strip and
the cassette tape from our LRC.
And this thing was
deteriorating really fast.
So they wanted to archive it and
just save the original version
and make this available digitally.
We created this.
We digitized it.
We scanned the slides.
We digitized the cassette and put this
together with QuickTime Player Pro.
It wasn't terribly tough.
In fact,
I'll show you how to do this today.
Now there were some copyright
issues and things like that.
And fortunately on our campus we have
a copyright and licensing office.
So we don't have to worry
about the copyright issues.
They do.
So once it's cleared,
we have the go ahead to go ahead
and digitize these materials.
So this is a great example of
being able to repurpose materials.
And make it available in digital
form so that the originals
will be archived and safe.
That was another great example
also of language learning.
You've got to learn foreign languages,
you've got to listen
and you've got to know,
listen to the native voice.
Here's another language learning example.
This is another oldie.
This is about four years old.
Here's a video clip that has,
this is kind of like a DVD, right?
You've got the French audio,
you've got...
The English audio.
And again, you can swap the tracks at any
time while you're viewing the clip.
What a great way to be able
to learn a foreign language,
at least starting out
learning a foreign language.
You can flip through the tracks.
There's also an English subtitle.
You can turn the subtitle
off if you want or not.
So you can listen to the
French and read the English.
Try to get that going or
listen to the English audio.
Just another thing that
QuickTime does extremely well,
and that is that swapping of the tracks.
Okay,
here's another really simple example.
The professor,
this is an entry level class,
and the professor was tired of
bringing the students into the lab.
Every single class,
putting that steel rod in that machine
and showing the students how that gets
stretched and what's going on here.
So what we did is we recorded
the experiment and added a
little flash track down here that
shows what the meters are doing.
This is great because this frees
up the lab for the higher level
classes for their experiments,
right?
And it still gives the students
the ability to kind of see
what's going on with the steel.
The professor uses this in the classroom.
And again,
makes that available in his online
course so the students can check
it out and review it later on.
Another great,
pretty simple way to create
an instructional object.
Okay.
Alright,
this was done for another professor.
This is using,
this professor wanted to combine
assessment with the video clips.
I kind of wanted to help the students
a little bit in helping to retain
some of the information they did.
So what we did is we created,
this is just a QuickTime movie
with an href track at the very end.
So if you skip to the very end.
It has an href track that
takes you to a question,
an assessment piece, right?
Now this is self-assessment.
The student just comes in here
and can check their answers.
But nonetheless,
this is another technique that
you can use to help your students,
help them comprehend the
materials that you're doing.
This is kind of a template that
we created for them and then
the professor went and took this
and created a whole website.
Again, if I skip to the end here,
there's just a little href
track that at the very end takes
you to an assessment piece.
Again, not very difficult to do and
we'll show you how to create href
tracks here in just a minute.
Alright,
here's another fun little example.
This one's 24 kilobytes.
It's a little drill and practice.
Computers are great for drill and
practice because they never get tired,
right?
So sometimes they call it drill and kill.
So here, let's see,
I'm supposed to find an interval here.
Doggone it.
Let's see here.
Let's get one right.
What's cool about this is that it
leverages the QuickTime instruments,
kind of the MIDI playback
that's inside of QuickTime,
so it's extremely lightweight.
And it has all kinds of potential.
We've got some really interesting
examples in testing with
music and things like that.
This one also,
you can test the interval as you...
Again,
this was done with Live Stage and it
leverages those QuickTime instruments,
which makes it really lightweight.
So the students can just drill
and kill until the cows come home.
Alright, here's another one.
This one's a listening guide.
Originally this was done in Flash.
I think it was like Flash 2 or something,
Flash 3.
But we brought it into
QuickTime because it seemed,
at the time, it seemed to perform
just a little bit better.
So what this is, is a listening guide,
right?
We've got the Beethoven's
Fifth going in the background.
We've got some visual information.
It's also interactive,
so if you want to just
skip to the French horns.
Terrific.
Oh, let's see,
what's the CODA sound like?
The professor can use
this in the classroom,
right?
And in the past, the students had a set
of CDs and the workbook,
and they'd have to find the track on the
CD player and look in the right page and
kind of sync them up as they're learning.
Now, we can do that all on the screen,
right?
And it's interactive,
so they can jump through,
and you can use this in all
kinds of different ways.
Again,
pretty easy to put together in Flash.
Here's another one.
Video, of course,
is great for performance analysis.
Can you hear that?
No?
"Performance analysis,
especially when a movement is involved,
right?
So what we have here is the
professor just sitting by the
camera with the microphone,
videotaping the student."
Giving some feedback as they're dancing.
This is great because the
professor really loves this.
And the technology has come down now that
we don't even have to do anything now.
The professor knows the whole workflow.
Has students help him
shoot the video clips.
In fact, every, of course the course is
broken up into units.
And every single unit,
the end of the unit,
every single student in the
class gets some video feedback.
And the students love that.
They can go through and review
that clip multiple times.
And he'll lead us on the fourth.
And it just makes it a little bit more
convenient for the student as well.
All the video clips are up
online on the course site.
And a great simple,
it's really not that high tech,
he's just sitting by the camera
offering feedback as they're dancing.
Great example of kind of a low
threshold technology that you can use.
Okay, let's see, what else we got?
Okay, time lapse photography is also
kind of a fun thing you can do.
Turn that down a little bit.
Of course this is really easy
to do with QuickTime Player Pro.
There's an option in there that
you can import an image sequence.
After we did this, we thought,
the next rev what we're going to
do is actually put the times in
there and maybe add a chapter track
or something that you could kind
of jump through specific times.
All kinds of interesting things there.
Okay, so we've kind of got a broad range.
Now let me show you some presentations.
This next presentation was done in Smile.
And what we've done is basically,
let's see here,
open it up in QuickTime player.
This particular example is basically
synchronizing video with slides,
right?
But we've added a few extra things.
We've added a table of contents
and you can click on the table
of contents and it'll go.
There we go.
We also have a chapter track down here.
You can jump to a specific
place with the chapter track.
And we have a caption as well.
And we'll show you how
to put this together.
But the advantage of using Smile,
of course, is that it's a text-based
markup language.
So editing this material is really easy.
You just go in and change some of
the parameters in the text and those
things are immediately changed.
This particular example also,
I'll make available at least the source
code for the Smile piece as a download.
So if you want to check it
out and kind of see how all
those things are put together,
you'll have access to that as well.
So there's an example with Smile.
Here's the example of the
same thing as an href track,
using a href track and
using HTML frames instead.
This is another advantage.
Now if the professor has a lot of
HTML files that he wants synchronized,
this is a great way to do that.
I'm sorry that the audio
wasn't quite as loud.
Again, you have a chapter track here,
so if you want to jump
to a specific piece.
In order for you to make an
intelligent and informed decision...
This is extremely lightweight because
it's just HTML over in this frame here.
It makes it so that you
can embed other materials,
flash files, other movie clips,
those kinds of things there.
And we'll show you how to put
together an HREF track presentation.
Okay, now this,
I really want to show you this one.
Sorry about the audio.
This one is just one slide.
It's just very short.
And I want you to pay attention
to the quality of the video.
I'm going to return to
this later in some slides.
This particular professor really wanted
us to shoot him inside the classroom.
And I think there's some
disadvantages to doing that.
One is the lighting was
extremely challenging.
The other one, we just missed it there,
but the student is actually
answering a question and at the
time we weren't set up with the
proper micing and things like that.
This is kind of a
lessons learned example.
Also with this particular piece,
the content,
he's talking with the students, well,
I'll leave it to another slide.
Another thing that it does,
measuring this is... So there's shooting
a professor inside the classroom.
Let's contrast that with another...
This presentation was shot in a studio.
The professor is reading a
script off a teleprompter.
And there's some reasons
why we really prefer this.
And we'll discuss it here shortly.
This particular piece was
created in Live Stage.
And one thing we really like
about Live Stage is the ability
to sync this right down inside
of a nice GUI to the frame level.
And then talk about how to implement
those three elements in a good,
reasonable way.
Again, we have a chapter track
down here so we can jump to
specific points in this piece.
Let's just go down to agenda.
We're ready to move to the
fourth part of the preview,
and that is the agenda statement.
Now the agenda is just a
listing of the main points
that we're going to talk about.
Okay, great.
Let's see.
Let's show you one more.
This is kind of over the top.
This particular example.
What is statistics?
You know, I really hate to say it,
but this particular
professor is kind of boring.
It's statistics, and the students were
getting really bored.
So one thing that we did is that
we enabled multi-speed control,
and the students love this.
This is really cool because, you know,
our human minds,
we can comprehend hundreds
of words per minute,
right?
And yet, a lot of times we're
just stuck on one speed.
So this allows the students
to actually get through more
material in the same time frame,
right?
Another thing is you have to kind
of focus on what the person is
saying as they're speaking fast.
So it helps the students kind
of focus in on the content.
I'm going to show you
how to do this today.
I think this is really important.
I think you guys can really
benefit from what's going on here.
So this is a quick example
of how you can do this.
So you can publish a result.
Now this was done in Live Stage 2,
and this has a few more, well,
it has a table of contents again,
and some extra buttons and
links to different things.
And this one actually later on in
the presentation has some areas
where the presentation stops,
and you have to answer a few questions,
and then continue on.
There's all kinds of great things you
can do inside the video clip itself.
Now,
one thing that I haven't mentioned yet is
that these slides here are still slides,
right?
We're not talking hundreds of frames.
It's not a hundred frames per second.
It's a still slide that lasts for,
you know, X amount of seconds.
So these can be extremely lightweight.
And of course,
it's all inside a QuickTime movie,
so it makes it really easy to make this
thing portable and transport it around.
We can throw this on a CD.
We can throw it up on the web page.
There's all kinds of interesting things
we can do once it's a QuickTime movie.
So I think that ends the kind
of the dog and pony show here.
Can we go back to slides, please?
Okay, here we go.
So let's talk about why you would
want to create synchronized lectures.
You know, it takes some time and
it takes some resources.
So there better be some important
reasons why that we spend the amount
of time and money to do these things.
Of course,
probably the number one thing is that
it supports different learning styles.
Students out there
learn in different ways.
Some learn more by listening.
Some learn more by viewing visuals.
Some learn more by just reading.
And we want to be able to accommodate
those different learning styles.
I think some of the things I showed
today help accommodate those things.
It also involves more of the senses.
There are studies that show that
when you involve more of the
senses in the learning process,
that the students retain
that information better.
And definitely we're using a lot
of the senses when we're creating
these types of presentations.
Probably the number one feedback
from the students is that it's
convenient and it's flexible.
In the past, they've had to go to these
lectures at specific set times.
Now, in a lot of our classes, what we do,
we do kind of a hybrid model where half,
you know, the class met two times a week.
Now, they only meet one time a week,
and that other class time,
they're assigned to go
through these lectures,
the synchronized lectures.
That allows them, at the other time that
they meet in class,
to do more active group-type activities,
more active learning-type
activities in the classroom.
And students really love that.
They can focus in on the content.
A lot of times in the lectures,
when you're in a live lecture,
there are students that ask
really stupid questions and
hold the rest of the class back.
Now, if there's a question,
a lot of times the students can
go and review those materials
again and again in the lecture.
And if they still don't get it,
then they can ask the professor online.
It kind of helps in time and not
wasting everybody's time in the lecture.
Of course,
you can review multiple sections.
You can jump straight to content.
So if you have a phone call and then
you want to get back to your lesson,
you can jump straight to that lesson.
And there are some ways that you
can make it searchable as well.
Let's see, what else we got here?
So what kind of features
are we looking for?
We took a really hard look at
what kind of features we wanted
in a synchronized lecture.
And we did a pretty good survey, I think,
even building some of our own little
things in different architectures.
And this is kind of the
list that we came up with.
It has to be cross-platform.
All too often,
especially in our IT department,
it's always Windows only.
And they forget about that there's
other operating systems out there,
especially the Macintosh.
And so we want to make this thing
as cross-platform as possible.
And most of our users are using
either Windows or Macintosh on campus.
And so QuickTime is just
a natural fit for that.
We want full transport control.
We want to be able to
stop that at any moment.
jump to specific points.
We want full transport control.
We want a nice table of contents
that the student can navigate so
they know exactly where they are and
they can jump to specific points.
Of course,
we want the slides and the audio
and video to be synchronized.
And we want the
synchronization to be tight.
We don't want it after a second
after they're talking about
it to have materials show up.
We want synchronicity.
Compliant with accessibility standards.
That's a very important
thing for us as well.
Of course, you should be familiar with
Section 508 and also the
accessibility guidelines by the WC3.
I'll have some more slides on that later.
Let's see, we need a progress indicator.
We need to let students know how long
this particular lecture is and where
they are in that particular lecture.
We also need support.
It needs to be flexible enough
that we can create a single
lesson or we can combine multiple
lessons in a single file.
And probably most importantly,
we need options to be
able to deploy this.
How many of you are familiar with Acacia?
Well, there's some patent suits going
on right now and some educational
institutions are being sued because
of these patent suits that have to
do with distributing video online.
Now they're going after cell
phone and satellite companies and
all kinds of interesting things.
It's going to be very
interesting how this plays out.
But we want some options to be
able to bypass some of these
legal issues that are currently
available or are currently there.
Here's some of the
things that we looked at.
We looked at Breeze.
Of course,
the architecture of Breeze is built off.
It's built off of a flash
communication server.
It has all kinds of
really interesting things.
But we found that we already
have a course management system,
Blackboard, that we use on campus.
That's kind of the direction we got.
So there's all kinds of bells
and whistles that we really
don't need inside of Breeze.
Plus,
the pricing is a little steep right now.
And we wanted to look
for other solutions.
Microsoft Producer is another
solution that's out there.
But of course, it's Windows only.
There was a lot of work on that.
There was a short time frame where
Internet Explorer for Mac was compatible.
But since that's gotten the axe,
it really is a non-solution for us.
Empatica and also Flash MX 2004 are
other solutions that are out there.
Incidentally, Flash is really pushing
hard their video solution.
And we've kind of hit the wall
with some issues maybe you have too
with trying to synchronize things,
especially to the frame level.
We ended up having to basically
keyframe every frame in the video clip
to be able to jump to specific points.
Love to talk to anybody about
that if you want to afterwards.
Alright, so why QuickTime?
Well, probably number one on
there is high quality.
We have so much flexibility in
there that it really allows us
to kind of fine tune things.
And we just noticed with
our Flash developers and the
QuickTime developers that we can
get actually a higher quality
out of the QuickTime stuff.
It's of course a cross-platform
solution and I really like
the track-based architecture.
That makes it so easy to be able
to put these kinds of materials
together and I'll show you
some development here shortly.
Another great thing is that QuickTime has
frame-level synchronization.
You can synchronize things down to the
frame and usually it's just rock solid.
A long history of CD-ROM and web
support supports a single plug-in
instead of collection of products.
That's very important to us.
We really want to keep
the support costs low.
With all the products that we release,
there's always a support
cost that's attached to that.
We need to be really careful with that.
There are some issues that
you should be aware of.
Probably the toughest
thing for our students is,
some students, is the install process.
There's just,
I can't remember how many there are now.
13, 14 steps.
And some of the technophobes
out there are scared to death.
They don't know what any of
these screens mean and stuff.
So you just need to be prepared to
kind of step them through the process.
Of course, you know,
those techno guys out there,
the techno folks usually have
no problem installing QuickTime.
They just click through, right?
There's also the NAG screen.
Occasionally we'll put things in
the QuickTime player and some of the
technophobes just don't know what
to do once that screen's up there.
Do I buy?
Do I not?
And we kind of need to help
step them through the process.
Now most of the stuff we do nowadays
is through the QuickTime plugin,
which that NAG screen only shows
once when you make the install.
And then it doesn't show again
if you're using the plugin.
So a lot of the stuff we do,
even on CD-ROM, we'll actually just put
it in a web environment.
Okay, here's kind of a process that we
use to create synchronized lectures.
Of referring, well,
first we have them create a script.
I think this is really important.
There's all kinds of noise.
We really feel that there's all kinds of
noise when we shoot in a live setting.
It may save time,
but I think in the long run,
if you bring the faculty
member into the studio,
you get a nice,
you get a more clear message.
And so we have the
professor create a script.
Of course, that script goes through
a review process.
Once the script is finalized,
we actually create the slides
after the script is done.
So it saves us time on that.
Once the slides are done,
we usually use PowerPoint.
That seems to be very popular.
We'll talk more about that here later.
After we create the
slides and the script,
we create a document that has
all that information in it
and we go into the studio.
We shoot the professor.
The professor is reading the scripts
or if they're off the teleprompter
or if they're really good,
they just kind of recite it by memory.
After that, we create an interface.
We create a caption.
The caption is really easy in
this kind of workflow because
you already have the script,
right?
Then we add an interface.
We sync the slides together,
add a caption, add an index.
An index basically is the chapter tracks.
Prep for deployment
and then we deploy it.
Now after this we have
also an evaluation process.
We have student surveys,
make sure that the materials that we've
created are actually accomplishing
the objectives that we've set out.
Since this is a development forum,
I skipped all that stuff.
Okay, so when we create a script,
usually it's done in Microsoft Word,
and something very important to
the developers is they actually
label when the slides are.
That's extremely helpful for us.
Okay, when we acquire the slides,
usually it's through PowerPoint.
And there's an interesting
issue with PowerPoint.
Most of the professors like to use
one slide with multiple bullet points,
right?
And they use a custom animation
to show the points one at a time.
Well, we want to be able to export
that out into still images.
And of course,
QuickTime supports all kinds
of different image formats.
So you just need to export
to one of those that fits.
Usually we've found that you need
to export those slides on the
same machine that was authored.
That just usually simplifies
if you don't have the fonts.
Of course,
there's font substitution that comes in.
There's cross-platform issues,
especially with the latest version
of Microsoft Office for OS X.
It has all kinds of really
cool graphics features.
Alpha channels is
extremely important to us,
and it supports that.
And Windows does a great job with that.
So usually we like to
export on the same machine.
The Macintosh PIC format
can also use vector text.
But when you save out those
slides as Macintosh PIC,
you have to make sure that wherever you
deploy that particular presentation,
they have to have those same fonts.
So usually for simplicity,
we just export out as PNG.
Now, returning back to the issue of how
do you capture the slides if you want
all the bullet points to be separate?
Well, we... We took a look at that,
and we decided that we were
going to create an Apple script.
So we have an Apple script that
you can connect up to Snaps Pro.
So basically,
you just set Snaps Pro up with the
file format that you want to save
as and the size and everything,
and bring up the presentation
and let Apple script go through.
Apple script will drive the
presentation in full screen,
and Snaps Pro will take a picture of
every single slide that you've got.
We found that to be extremely useful.
So at the end of the presentation,
I'll show you a link where you can
download that and use that if you'd like.
Okay, so after the slides,
we capture the video.
You do have the option
to record in the class,
but we found that kind of the
noise to learning or noise to
content level is pretty high inside,
well, in a live setting.
Also,
there's lighting issues that you really
want to bring this person into the
studio to get a good quality video clip.
Now,
I guess there's also issues on whether
you use talking head or whether you skip
the talking head and just use audio.
For some reasons to use talking
head is if the professor is
using a lot of body language.
You know,
nonverbal communication accounts for,
like,
I guess studies show that 55% of the
presentation is dependent on or is
impacted by the nonverbal language
that's going on in the presentation.
So, some professors... you'll
probably want to use video,
and other professors,
you probably don't want to use video.
So, that's kind of a judgment
call that you'll need to make.
Of course, not using video,
you've reduced the size
significantly of the presentation.
So, there's some things to look at.
Of course,
you want to use proper lighting.
You want to use a close microphone so
you can capture the audio nice and clear.
Sometimes we've experimented
with capturing straight to a
compressed format using... a
broadcaster or some other tool.
We actually found a way
to hack Final Cut Pro to
capture in sorts and video.
Stick to the standard methods
of capturing the tape,
dumping that down,
and compressing from a high res file.
It does a better job.
Of course, we do pre-processing.
We use squeeze, cleaner, and compressor.
It just depends on the project and what
resources are available at the time.
After that we create the interface.
Of course we use Photoshop.
We leverage layers.
Very important concept for us.
It helps maximize things.
Of course there's all kinds of cool
non-destructive things that you can do.
Effects and things that you can do in
Photoshop that we like to leverage.
This is just a simple interface
that we threw together.
We have a portion for the video,
we have a portion for the slides,
and we just kind of put a skin on it.
Creating the caption.
This is, again,
very important for education.
And why you might want to do that,
the government, of course,
has come out with Section 508,
which are a set of guidelines for
all of their products that they
need to account for accessibility.
Basically, for video,
we need to accommodate a few things.
For the visually challenged,
we need to add some
kind of an equivalent,
like an audio track.
For the hearing impaired,
we need to be able to
We need to be able to show captions and
provide some kind of a text equivalent,
right?
And also the W3C has come out
with some guidelines as well
that we need to account for.
So how do you go about doing
this inside of QuickTime?
Well,
because of the track-based architecture,
text tracks is one of the
track types that you can use.
And so we actually do a lot of
our captioning just by hand,
pulling up QuickTime Player,
pulling up Microsoft Word.
And going through and
typing those things in.
There are some applications out
there that are available that can
kind of help streamline things.
Magpie is a free utility that's out
there by WGBH that's built off of Java,
so it's a craft platform.
And it does a pretty good job.
It's actually a terrific application,
especially because it's free.
It'll allow you to go
through and mark times.
And then at the very end, well,
as you mark times in the video clip,
you can add your text to it.
So you can choose the text
that needs to go there.
And at the very end,
you can export that as a QuickTime movie.
We'll kind of go through the
process of creating some of
these things here shortly.
But Textation and GoLive and
LiveStage all have options as well
that allow you to create captions.
And we'll go through the
process of creating some of
those things here shortly.
How we doing?
Okay, I'm going to just whiz through
some of this stuff here.
Here we go, indexing.
Indexing is very important.
We want to be able to jump through
to specific points in a movie.
Usually we do that
through chapter tracks.
You can also create a visual
table of contents and there
are some facility out there,
there is facility out there
to do searchable tracks.
Okay, here we go.
So, I'm going to show you how to create
synchronized presentations in all
of these different solutions here.
QuickTime Player Pro, Smile,
Live Stage and Go Live.
And, can we go back to, oh this is good.
Hey, guess what?
Okay, so let's see.
Let's start off by using Smile.
No, I take that back.
Let's use QuickTime Player Pro.
We're going to create that slide show,
the Russian slide show
in QuickTime Player.
Basically what we're going to do,
you need to have Pro to do this,
is here's the audio track
and here are the slides.
I'm just going to open up the first
five slides or so in QuickTime Player.
Here we go.
Okay.
Alright,
first thing I'm going to do is I'm going
to copy this slide to the clipboard.
So here we go.
Copy.
Then I'm going to go to the audio track
and I'm going to hold down the shift key.
Now this is a great example because
there's actually a beep that
tells me when the next slide is.
Excuse me.
So...
What I'm going to do is I'm
going to play this clip and I'm
going to hold down the shift key.
What that does is as
the movie is playing,
it's going to select that
portion that I just played.
So here we go.
Aha!
Okay.
So now I've just selected that
portion that slides on the clipboard.
Now what I'm going to do is come
under here and choose Add Scaled.
And what that does is that adds
that particular slide to that
duration in the movie clip.
Now we're at the very end of
that clip so we don't see it.
That's fine.
What I'm going to do now is do Command-B,
which will take both selection
points and put them right at
the point where I just stopped.
I'm going to hold down
the shift key again.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, right there.
And let's go to slide two.
We're going to copy
this to the clipboard.
And then I'm going to choose Add Scale.
OK.
Now that just added that
slide to the selection that's
made available right there.
So I'm going to do Command B,
and we're going to do this one more time.
.
Okay, and slide three.
Let's find slide three.
Copy, add scale.
Okay?
Pretty straightforward.
The only disadvantage of
this is if you screw up,
you kind of have to do undo and back
up a little bit to see what's going on.
But here, let me just show you
what that looks like now.
[Transcript missing]
A little straightforward.
Okay, so basically that's doing kind of a
presentation in QuickTime Player Pro.
I guess what I could have
done is added a caption.
We'll have to skip that today.
We're kind of running short on time.
So let's move to Smile.
Let me open up this
presentation right here.
Here's our Smile file.
And can you see that?
Is that kind of small?
Let me see if I can zoom in real quick.
Okay, let's go through kind
of what's going on here.
So for Smile, of course,
it's based off of XML,
so we need to make sure that our
tags are all straight and that we've
got ending brackets and everything.
At the very beginning here,
we kind of set up Smile and we
set an XML namespace here for
what kind of code we're using.
QuickTime has all kinds of interesting
QuickTime specific tags that you can use.
And you can see some of
these right at the very top.
We're going to set the autoplay to true.
We're going to add a time slider.
We're going to,
immediate instantiation kind of means,
does this movie wait until everything
gets loaded before it plays or can
it kind of like fast start playing
before things are completely loaded.
And we're using a chapter track in
here and so there's a chapter track
mode that we need to set for all,
which means this whole movie
clip gets the same chapter track.
After that, we have a header here.
And in the header.
We get to put some annotations.
These actually show up
as QuickTime annotations.
And there's a whole set of different
parameters that you can set there.
In the layout area,
this is kind of where we set
up visually what's going to be
happening in this Smile file.
And so we set up a root layout.
That's the basic dimensions
of the whole file.
And then inside that root layout,
we can put in regions.
And these regions are the different
containers that we have for
the different objects in there.
So we have a region for the backdrop.
We have a region for the background.
We have a region for the video.
We have a region for the
slides and also the transcript.
After that, this is kind of crazy.
This is kind of the solution we
came up with for the navigation,
the table of contents.
We actually set up a region for
every single chapter point that's
there in the table of contents.
Kind of crazy.
I think there's been some fixes now with
QuickTime text that you can actually just
put one line of text in there instead.
But we just set up regions.
and each region has
Each region has a specific area.
Also, right beside the region,
there is a little pointer,
a little dot that tells you
what chapter that you're on.
We actually set up a
separate region for that.
So let's see, how am I going to do this?
I guess I'm going to have to do this.
Okay, let's scroll down a little bit.
Alright,
here's where we start placing things,
the actual content in the presentation.
So we have the body tag and inside
the body tag we have a parallel tag.
So in the parallel tag everything
gets played at the same time.
So we have a background image that
needs to be played at the same time.
And we actually sent,
you notice that there's an end tag here.
Can you see that?
Here we go.
The end tag says, "Hey,
stretch this background image to the
entire length of the video clip."
And we also set a chapter point.
This QT colon chapter,
those are actually the chapter
tracks that get listed.
Right?
And we set a duration.
These are actually the slides here.
So you have all the slides and
This is a little confusing.
Sorry about that.
At the very end here,
we have the table of contents.
It's actually a text.
In fact, right, let's see,
sorry about this.
This is actually text data.
The QuickTime basically has its own
little markup language for text.
And that's basically
what you're seeing here.
We're saying, hey, show this text.
It's QT text.
Show the font, show the size, bold,
width, all that stuff.
And at the very end is
the content right here,
start.
That's what actually gets
shown in that particular layer.
We won't spend too much time on this
because you can download it and you can
check it out for yourself if you'd like.
I actually wrote this by hand.
I just find that just a
little bit easier to do.
A lot of times, you know with HTML,
the editors kind of add extra code and
stuff that kind of gets in the way.
That's kind of the same thing here.
Now Go Live does have a smile editor
and actually I like developing in that
because kind of the markup changes
color and that kind of fun stuff.
But I kind of still kind of code by hand.
And hopefully this will kind of
give you a good idea of what's
available inside of QuickTime.
Okay, so moving right along.
Let's see, what's next?
Let's do href tracks real quick.
How much time do we have?
12 minutes.
Okay.
So here's an href track.
This is kind of what
we did to set this up.
We used Go Live.
Go Live actually has a really
good QuickTime editor in it.
It's kind of tucked behind.
There's not a lot of
marketing going on with the
QuickTime editor inside of Go Live.
But the first thing we do with
this is that we set up a web page,
right?
And this is a framed environment.
So we have an area where the
video clip gets displayed.
And if I open that up,
here's the video clip.
And it's basically an embedded
QuickTime movie that's there.
We have just a blank space here.
And then here's where the content is.
And what's very important
here is you need to know the
name of this frame space.
Because when the movie is playing,
we tell the href track to say, hey,
grab this HTML file and
put it in this frame.
And so we need to know that
this frame is called content.
So if we come over here,
I'm just going to double
click on this video clip.
And it opens up the
QuickTime editor in here.
Now,
there's a timeline here at the very top.
And we're going to show that.
One thing I really like about
Go Live is this timeline.
It's really nice.
Let's see if I can move
some things around here.
Okay.
So this particular movie clip just
has an audio track and a video track.
And what we want to do
is add an href track.
So if you go over here to the
QuickTime properties area here.
And if we come down, here is the href
So we're going to drag
an href track there.
Let's see if I can, oh well.
We need the inspector,
so bring the inspector back.
I'm going to select,
there's actually kind of a track view and
then this is the sample view down below.
We need to select that sample
view and the very beginning here,
we need to select that first,
let's see if I can find this real quick.
Okay.
We need to select the first slide.
So here's our slides and what
I did earlier is I created an
HTML page for every single slide.
So this is the first slide
that needs to be loaded.
So we're going to select that.
We're going to select the target,
which is, since the page is already
open in the background,
it puts the frame name,
makes it available for me.
And I'm going to select auto-load URL.
Okay, so we've set up our first frame.
Now what we need to do is,
I'm going to choose preview here,
and for some reason now,
that activates this little
transport down here.
I'm going to play this clip.
So I'm going to go ahead
and select the slide.
And I'm going to go ahead
Okay, so I'm going to go ahead
and select the slide.
And I'm going to go ahead
So what I'm going to do is,
I'm going to take my slice tool and
line it up right there and create a
new sample inside this href track.
Now, if I select that sample,
I can change this to slide two, right?
So now I have slide one
at the very beginning,
and now at that particular time,
it goes to slide two.
Now,
all I do from this is I just continue on.
Well, accounting is-- I think
it goes right about there,
somewhere in that area.
So you just keep doing this till
the end of the presentation,
right?
All righty?
So that's basically how you'd go
ahead and put in an href track.
Now, you can do something very similar
with a text track inside of Go Live.
Let's drag a text track here.
Oh, and I need to bring
this all the way back.
And here we have the
track representation.
And then down below, we have the samples.
And this is where we put the actual text.
So what I'm going to
do here is-- and again,
you can just work linearly.
Let's go over these questions.
OK, so you can start there and say--
That's what he says.
Back it up just a little bit.
Try it again.
Questions reflected here in this first...
You get the idea and then when you
apply that and then you can use the same
process here of breaking up those tracks
into different points and just kind of go
in a linear fashion all the way through
the clip and create that text track.
Now one thing that I forgot to
do is you can actually go here
in the layout area and you can
change the dimensions of that.
So if you wanted this to be, there we go,
and we could just move
that down to the bottom.
And I guess I should
change this text here.
If I select this sample here, I can.
Apply it.
Okay, now when I save this,
and let's go and let's
see if this all works.
Let's go over these questions.
I think I've got some
issues with my frames here.
The first one was,
why is accounting... Well,
you see the caption is working
and you also see that the
HTML pages are flipping,
right?
Accounting is the language of business
because accounting seeks to provide
information... Does that give you a good
enough idea of what's going on there?
So there's a powerful tool inside.
Oh, and there's all kinds
of interesting tracks.
You can do effects tracks and all kinds
of-- chapter tracks is basically the
same process of going through linear.
Start at the beginning and
just go all the way down your
movie and add chapter tracks.
And so that's basically using Go Live.
We need to jump into
Live Stage real quick.
Livestage, of course, has some powerful
scripting tools in there,
but it also has some tools to
help you create presentations.
Did you know that there's a
synchronizer inside of Livestage?
Okay, let me show you how that works.
Okay.
Let's create a brand new project.
We're going to start
straight from scratch here.
Okay.
First thing I'm going to do once this
is up is I'm going to do command I,
show the movie inspector.
I'm just going to set right off
the top my dimensions of the
movie that I want to create,
and I'm going to erase that background.
Then I'm going to save it.
This is really important
because before this,
I actually created a library folder,
and inside that library folder,
I put all my media that I'm going
to use for this particular project.
This is really important because
I want all my materials in that one
folder so that I can transport this.
If I'm on different computers and stuff,
I want to be able to
transport this around.
So you see the movie,
there's the background image
and the slides are in that area.
So I'm going to save that one
level up from that library folder.
And this is called sample.
Okay, now once I save that,
if I look at the local library,
it's pointing to that library
folder that's just been set up.
So now I can go ahead and I'm going
to drag in my background image.
And I'm going to drag in
The movie clip.
Okay, I'm going to position that
movie clip so it's right on top.
"If I move my mouse over the duration,
well over the video clip,
it's telling me the duration.
27, 22, 221.
And I'm going to just,
this is kind of just an easy
way to make the duration of
the background clip the same."
So now, excuse me, you can see that,
oh my, what happened there?
I must have mistyped something.
Okay, there we go.
Now we've got the background.
The background has the same
duration as the video clips.
Now we're going to put the slides in.
Now to do this,
what we need to do is that there's,
I guess,
a couple different ways you can do this.
This is how I like to do it.
I select all these slides.
Here we go.
It's important that you
select every single file.
If you were just to grab the folder
and drag it over to this area,
what it does is it creates a single track
for every single one of those images,
and we don't want that.
So here we go.
So if we drag that over here,
what it does is it creates a single
picture track with all those tracks,
with all those pictures lined up.
You see how they're
all lined up together?
Okay.
So what we're going to do now is
we're going to use the synchronizer to
specify the times of all those slides.
So how do we do that?
We select the soundtrack down here,
come under movie,
and choose media synchronizer.
Here's the synchronizer.
We get to select the source for
the audio or video track that
we're going to synchronize to.
Then down here, we're going to select the
track that we're going to use.
I forgot to do something very important.
Don't follow me.
Follow Michael Schaaf because
this is his recommendation.
That is to name every single
track and then select the time.
And item explicitly.
This can help you tremendously
in your development.
So let me just do this real quick.
Sorry.
Creature of habit here.
Okay.
So here are my slides.
There we go.
So now if I have selected the soundtrack,
I go back to the media synchronizer.
Now I know for sure that I want to sync
to slides and not some other track.
We could be syncing the
background track for all we know.
Okay, so from this point we have the
opportunity to click the synchronize
button and what we want to do here
is as we're listening to this we
want to set the out point or the
in point depending on where we are.
So let's see if we can do this.
We talked in an earlier presentation
about how to plan a presentation.
I think this goes on for a
little bit so I'm going to try
to jump a little bit further.
We also want to talk about why every
good message has to be three elements and
then talk about how to implement those
three elements in a good presentation.
So, what elements... Okay,
so right there I'm going
to have that slide.
[Transcript missing]
Let's see.
Once it's done, you come back here,
you'll notice that, well,
once you do all of them,
you'll notice that the durations of all
those have been lined up exactly where
you want it to go all the way through.
How are we doing?
Oh, we've got one minute and 23 seconds.
So, one last thing I want to show you
and that is the multi-speed control.
I'll show you how to set that up.
And to do that, I'm just going to pull
up another project.
Okay, here's how we set that up.
We basically followed the
same pattern that we just did
with synchronizing the slide.
I forgot to mention one other thing,
but we'll do that here shortly.
So we basically follow that same step.
This one has a whole bunch
of other stuff in there,
but you notice that there's
actually three different
tracks here at the very bottom.
Track one, excuse me,
I'm losing my voice.
Track 1 is one speed.
Alpha, beta, power.
Okay, track 2 is one and a half speed.
Power and the relationships.
Okay.
In our last lesson.
Alright, track 3 is two times speed.
Okay, now what's going on here?
They're actually slower, right?
But what happens is that when
you add your wired sprites here,
Let's pull up our wired
sprites real quick.
In the code here for wired sprites,
we tell this thing, okay,
if it's one speed, well,
set the movie rate.
Let's see, where is this?
There we go.
If this thing is,
when you click on the one speed button,
it plays one speed.
When you click on the 1.5, there we go.
It speeds it up to 1.5.
So the trick here is that you've got
to lower the pitch of the voice so
when you play one and a half speed,
it brings it up to the same pitch
level and plays it in that fashion,
right?
Understand how that goes?
So with 2.5, again,
since the pitch was lowered and then
you play it two and a half times speed,
it actually brings the pitch
back up and plays it faster.
See how that works?
So basically use Logic or I think
there's all kinds of different
audio apps out there that will
just lower the pitch for you.
And so you just want to make
sure that the durations are still
the same on your audio clips,
but they all have different
pitches to start out with.
And then when you bring them in here,
when you create those speed buttons,
it brings the pitch back up
and just plays it faster.
So the real trick here is to get the,
you know, get what level do you
bring the pitch down.
And we've kind of found
that with different people,
you kind of have to
use different settings.
So it's kind of a hit
and miss kind of thing.
But basically that's it.
And let's see, can we go back to slides?
I think I got a ton of...
I think I've got about 20 more slides,
but we'll skip those
because we're over time.
So, quickly, CD-ROM deployment.
Two kinds.
We really prefer progressive.
It just seems a lot more simple
to do progressive than to,
at this point in time, for us.
We distribute all our stuff on CD-ROM,
even in our distance edge department.
We do it all on CD-ROM.
That's actually turned out to be
a silver lining because of these
patent suits that are going on.
We don't have any problems with
the lawsuits going on right now
because we already were distributing
all our materials on CD-ROM.
For us,
it just seems a little bit easier.
Well, we'll leave it at that.
I'm over time.
So, we actually deploy a lot of stuff
on CD-ROM in the web browser.
Just really quick and simple.
There's one important thing I'll put
on my website that you'll need to know,
and that is in Internet Explorer,
if you try to develop a CD with
Internet Explorer for Windows,
it bypasses, well, I guess they have a,
a feature inside of IE for Windows that
requires the whole thing to download.
The whole movie has to download into
the cache before it starts playing.
There's a workaround for that.
You can use QT source tags and
all kinds of interesting stuff.
Occasionally we do deploy through HTTP,
but a lot of times what we do is
we'll make the movies available for
the students and the students can
download those and burn those to CD.
So here's a summary.
QuickTime is an excellent
solution for this kind of stuff.
There's all kinds of
great advantages to do it.
And you know the development
process isn't that bad.
There are different ways to create it.
Captioning is a very important feature.
Sorry we didn't spend more time on that.
Indexing, of course,
just adds value to your materials.
And time scale modification, I think,
can save a lot of time.
It's going to be very useful.
And here's who you can contact
if you have any questions.
Just talk to us too, or Amy.
And that's it.